---
title: "promised land"
date: Thu Nov 02
description: "The foundation myth of the Jewish people explicitly lays out Yahweh commanding the Jews to enter the 'promised land' and commit genocide against all of the..."
thread_id: thread_0475
word_count: 397
reading_time: 2
primary_theme: marxism_historical materialism
tags: ["marxism_historical materialism", "cultural criticism"]
---

# promised land

The foundation myth of the Jewish people explicitly lays out Yahweh commanding the Jews to enter the "promised land" and commit genocide against all of the indigenous inhabits. The Tanakh lists the "7 nations" that needed to be slaughtered to make the land a Jewish home. https://t.co/iUNctj6noK I could go on and on about the religious angle, because it's fascinating and deeply revealing about the Zionist ideology. They literally named themselves after Zion, a fortress in what became Jerusalem, that was owned by the Yevushim (one of the 7 nations), and conquered by David Prior to that, the Torah details the origins of the people themselves, starting with the forefather Abraham, who was told by Yahweh to emigrate from "Ur Kasdim," in Mesopotamia, and travel to a land filled with strangers. Based on that, Jews would be "indigenous" to Iraq. The mythical reigns of David and Solomon (for which there is no corroborating historical evidence of their existence) is really the only "source" of the claim of "Israel" being a united Jewish entity. David finished the conquest of the "holy land," and crafted the United Kingdom. Oh, you don't want to use religious texts as historical pretext? Ok, how about the actual archaeological record, in which "Israel" is not mentioned before 3500 years ago, and yet some of the oldest permanent settlements in the world are found in the Levant? Solomon then ruled wisely over the pan-Israeli kingdom, and commissioned the construction of the first temple. Upon his death, the Tanakh describes civil war and the splintering of the kingdom into two: Judea, centered on Jerusalem and the temple, and Israel, centered on Shechem. The Levant is one of the most historically diverse, continuously occupied regions in human history, populated by innumerable different ethnic groups over the past 10 millennia. The ancient Hebrews represent only one small chapter in that long history. The two kingdoms definitely existed according to the archaeological record, but there is no evidence that there was ever a united monarchy before them. They were two polities alternately skirmishing and allying in turn. Eventually, the north was conquered by Neo-Assyria. The south would later follow. It is this southern Judean kingdom that modern Zionists trace their mythical heritage, completely ignoring the fate of the northern "ten lost tribes." Despite the dozens of populations around Africa and Asia who trace their lineage to the Samaritans.