---
title: "t have a "
date: Wed Oct 18
description: "Militias don't have a 'right to exist.' Anarchist mutual aid networks don't have a 'right to exist.' Farms don't have a 'right to exist."
thread_id: thread_0033
word_count: 208
reading_time: 1
primary_theme: marxism_historical materialism
tags: ["marxism_historical materialism"]
---

# t have a 

Militias don't have a "right to exist." Anarchist mutual aid networks don't have a "right to exist." Farms don't have a "right to exist."

There is nothing "inherent not natural" about anything humans create to advance their interests. Nothing special about states in that regard. https://t.co/l6HGAPCcwL What *is* special about states is the particular capacity they have to mobilize enormous volumes of labor power to accomplish particular projects. That project could involve the suppression of the working class, ethnic cleansing, etc. Or it could be liberation. Either way, states are not inherently "good" or "bad". They don't have a "right to exist," because they don't need to: any more than *any* tool needs to earn its own existence. Using tools to defeat others who use tools is not only acceptable, it's necessary if you want to win. And don't think we don't notice you trying to worm anarchist idealism into a conflict between a state committing genocide and a nation struggling to be free. The latter group wants to build a state to defend themselves against oppression the likes of which you can't comprehend. Don't wade into active struggle against genocide with your pacifist, anti-hierarchical bullshit and expect acquiescence. No one affected by this cares about your sensibilities.