---
title: "the burning"
date: Thu Oct 08
description: "You want to *actually* end the burning of fossil fuels?"
thread_id: thread_0443
word_count: 317
reading_time: 2
primary_theme: intersectional
tags: ["covid_public health politics", "organizational theory"]
intersectional_themes: ["covid_public health politics", "organizational theory"]
---

# the burning

You want to *actually* end the burning of fossil fuels?

-Get a job at a major fossil fuel company

-Befriend your coworkers

-Listen and agree whenever they complain about their jobs

-Commiserate about how unfair it is that your jobs are always being attacked
(1/7) -Subtly imply that, yeah, climate change is manmade, but that doesn't mean you all should starve

-Bring up how the Green New Deal would guarantee jobs for all fossil fuel workers, and wouldn't that be great? If only any Republicans or Democrats cared about us...
(2/7) -Talk about how your bosses give money to both parties to keep things the way they are.

-Talk about how fossil fuel jobs are disappearing left and right, and you're scared you won't be able to stay in this career long-term.

-Talk about how at least they need you for now

(3/7) -Ask each co-worker that you make a connection with over the course of these conversations for a one-on-one meeting.

-Bring up those same points about job security and corporate greed again.

-Bring up the idea of forming a union so they can't push you around.

(4/7) -Build a larger and larger network of pro-union workers. Teach your allies how to have these same conversations until you have enough workers on board.

-With or without a formally-recognized union, call a strike when you have the numbers
(5/7) -Demand that the company unilaterally begins transitioning to renewable energy.

-Demand written commitment that workers will not be laid off during this transition.

-Demand that all necessary training be provided to workers and that they be paid during this training.
(6/7) -Refuse to return to work until these demands are met, codified in an explicit contract with a timeline for implementation.

-When the demands are agreed to, return to fossil fuel work while they implement the transition

-If the timeline is not met, the work stops again.
(7/7)