---
title: "t mean "
date: Mon Jun 03
description: "When they say this, they don't mean 'Hamas refuses to accept a ceasefire deal.' They mean the *very existence* of Hamas is 'standing in the way."
thread_id: thread_1076
word_count: 352
reading_time: 2
primary_theme: intersectional
tags: ["imperialism_colonialism", "cultural criticism", "organizational theory"]
intersectional_themes: ["imperialism_colonialism", "cultural criticism", "organizational theory"]
---

# t mean 

When they say this, they don't mean "Hamas refuses to accept a ceasefire deal." They mean the *very existence* of Hamas is "standing in the way."

They also define "Hamas" as "anyone who fights back against or even reports on the occupation of Palestine." https://t.co/A86zx32W0v They will not rest until they are certain the capacity for Palestinian resistance in its entirety is sufficiently destroyed. They intentionally maintain vagueness around this, because it is necessarily an open-ended operation: resistance to oppression never goes away. However, in pursuit of this impossible goal, they do have some specific goals:

- The death or imprisonment of every member of *every* militant organization in the resistance (not just Hamas). This includes hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom are currently in exile. - The destruction of all social infrastructure (schools, hospitals, power plants, etc.) in Gaza that is not under the direct control of the occupation. This has been a major priority of the genocidal campaign, and the major reason they are specifically naming their enemy "Hamas" Hamas is the governing entity of Gaza, and has administered most social infrastructure for decades. The indiscriminate bombing of hospitals and universities and refugee camps under the banner of "driving out Hamas" has always been the central aim of the campaign. - The pacification of the entire axis of resistance, across several sovereign states. This is their "reach goal," because it would almost certainly require the US to either invade or enforce an embargo on Iran (or else engineer one of the most unlikely coups in history). Long story short, there is no horizon too distant for "Israel" in its pursuit of unchallenged hegemony over Palestine. For the US, this is a problem, because the maintenance costs of its Middle Eastern colony are very quickly overtaking the benefits. All the US can think to do is continue to shovel resources at the problem, hoping to stave off collapse. But they're not foolish enough to believe that's sustainable. The plan for right now is to destroy as much of the resistance as possible, to hopefully stall for a bit longer.