---
title: "t get the "
date: Sat May 25
description: "If you can't get the 'Marxists' in your area to form a study group, then they aren't Marxists yet. Instead, form an organization aimed at fulfilling a..."
thread_id: thread_0849
word_count: 404
reading_time: 2
primary_theme: marxism_historical materialism
tags: ["marxism_historical materialism", "political economy", "organizational theory"]
---

# t get the 

If you can't get the "Marxists" in your area to form a study group, then they aren't Marxists yet.

Instead, form an organization aimed at fulfilling a particular material need in your community, especially something local liberal charities aren't doing (because they can't). https://t.co/ms0WUnaYUK Position this org as being explicitly Marxist, both in "branding" and structurally. Organize under principles that make it clear why you are tackling this particular issue, what your horizons are, and why you organize in this way. Hardcode study directly into the bylaws. Invite interested "radicals" into the organization as supporters -- volunteers, donors, allies. Make it clear to them that membership in the broader organization will entail deliberate Marxist education, but that otherwise, any way they can help is always appreciated. The "Marxists" in your area will naturally be the ones who most eagerly move into the educational space, transitioning from mere volunteers to full members. These are the ones who were reluctant to join "just another book club," but are invigorated by the org's material impact. With enough education, these "Marxists" will simply be actual Marxists, capable of leading and educating others. The vigor with which your org is able to provide materially for the community will attract more supporters, particularly from among those served by the org. More supporters means a greater pool of resources to expand the organization's programs. It also means there will be an influx of new members seeking further political development. This circuit can continue indefinitely, expanding the org's operational capabilities exponentially. It is only once enough of these local orgs have reached this level of maturity that we can say that the movement as a whole has developed enough for coalescence into a true communist party. Anyone attempting to call themselves "the party" in the absence of this is fooling you. I'm aware of only a handful of orgs in North America that are even on this path, and I'm sure all of them would agree that they haven't yet reached full maturity as a reproductive cell of communism. But they are certainly working towards it, and should be emulated. It takes a great deal of patience, which is hard to come by in the context of the urgency of the moment. But there is no way to cut corners on the reproduction of communism. We need education. We need consistency. We need growth. We need to be inextricable from our communities.