---
title: "just a type"
date: Wed Apr 17
description: "I will die on this hill: children are just a type of person, they are as diverse in mannerisms as any broad group of people, and it is utterly bizarre to treat..."
thread_id: thread_0213
word_count: 238
reading_time: 1
primary_theme: uncategorized
---

# just a type

I will die on this hill: children are just a type of person, they are as diverse in mannerisms as any broad group of people, and it is utterly bizarre to treat "child" as a social category worthy of wholesale distaste and dismissal. https://t.co/eW8SSipzrr "They're loud and annoying and carry diseases! It's normal to not want to be around that!" Not all children are loud and in your face. As a kid, I was very quiet, and I mainly made friends with kids who were like me. Not to mention that "kid" spans dozens of developmental eras. They aren't any more likely to spread diseases than adults -- that's a statistical optical illusion, caused by the fact that parents are simply exposed to an extra social circle beyond other adults. You may as well say "It's normal to dislike parents because they spread disease." Kids can be outgoing, they can be reserved, they can be clever, they can be dumbasses, they can be annoying, they can be fun. The same kid can be all of those things at different points, because they are people, and they are multifaceted, just like adults. Kids aren't infected with some Essence of Kid that makes them any one thing. Trying to justify disliking them on principle is as ridiculous as listing the "totally reasonable" reasons you have a distaste for women -- after all, we're all "loud and emotional and needy," right?